Hey,
guys,
congrats for making it this far In this course in this video will be just be doing some
final touches toe our application this far.
Now let's just review are up quickly so we can see what kind of finishing touches would be
required on the first thing that comes to mind is the father we haven't really put in a
sensible footer upon to know on then.
The other thing is that we need to publish this publicly so that our registration form is
available publicly on.
We need to get through those activities in this video.
So the first thing that we're going to do is make a more sensible looking footer.
So up until now,
we have our includes file and we had our footer,
not PHP file on in that file.
We just had a live and we called it footer on.
We just echoed copyrights on what we did to kind off create this density in the footer and
the rest off the page was,
and other sports the inexperience.
Here we put in some br tax that kind off pod the space between our footer on the rest of
the page,
know The reality is that bootstrap actually kind of gives us classes that alot us toe have
fixed footer.
So the bottom of the page so we don't need 10 are so br tax to put space between the
content on the footer on.
Secondly,
we're going to be using bootstrap toe,
actually make our foot or look like something sensible.
So I'm just going to delete this footer tag firstly,
and then we're going to rebuild it.
So I'm deleting it,
and I'm going to probably retired some of the court that I just deleted.
But either way,
we can do it together.
So remember that in the footer dot PHP file that this closing beef tug would correspond
with the opening def tie in our header.
So if I go back to the header,
then I see that you have Dave container.
All right.
Remember,
the container is what gives those those that margin like space or the space between the
left,
most edge and enough bar start or the contents.
That's what the container does are enough bars in the content.
I want to put the foot the footer insider content also,
as you can see,
it really is inside of that container talk,
brother.
So I am going to inside off the footer right above that closing day for my continue,
It'd I am going to create a div,
and we actually had it just know.
But I deleted it.
And that's no problem.
We're doing this together from scratch,
so I'm going to create a div on.
Then I'm going to give this def the I d footer on then.
Inside the same footer.
I want to give it a few bootstrap classes.
So the first class I'm going to give it is P minus tree.
And I'll explain what each class does that I'm going to give it MB miners to on DBI g dash
Andi,
just go back and reference the header to see what kind of BG we use.
So we used b g dash dark.
So is a dark theme.
Well,
while we use the dark nav bar,
we really use the color BG dash primary.
So in the footer,
I'm going to use B g dash primary to set the color off our footer on.
Then I went to see text dash white to make sure that we get white text on,
then the clincher is fixed dash bottom,
so this in particular will make sure that it is going to go down to the footer section off
our page or are stay at the bottom of the page.
So fixed bottom means that no matter how much or little content is under page itself,
the footer will always be at the bottom of the page because upon to know,
we're allies that if there is a little bit of content,
it kind of rises open if there's are lots than it gets pushed on,
which is why we need that to be our tugs.
So this class will kind of force it down to the bottom and then combined all of these kind
of create a nice blue footer section or give with a footer content at the bottom of the
page on.
Then,
inside off this footer,
I'm going to put some more official text where I'm going to see that the copyright I T
conference attendance system on de called the date aan den So that p tag with text.
Dutch centre should center line some amount of text in our footer footer Div Andi central
and off course and print the date that it is being viewed.
So I'm just going to see if this and then I'm just going to go back and refresh my page on
.
If you look at it now,
you'll see that we have a more sensible king footer.
Now,
let me explain what each class does.
So the first class p three is talking about the padding so we can just go back to our p a
drag click and go to inspect elements.
And then we can kind off,
take an antique,
each elements.
I'm just inspecting the footer itself.
And then we can take an unclean Kontic,
the classes being referenced here.
So text dash white is they're saying that the color of the text should be white and I think
,
why looks better against blue background and blue.
What off course you can customize yourself.
P Dash three means that the padding is applied.
So if you look at the difference when we click fighting versus tickets off,
you see that the parting changes each time so I can leave that on then the MBI dash to
talks about the margin to the bottles.
If I antique that you noticed that that white space that's at the bottom of the footer kind
of goes away.
So actually,
off all these classes,
I would probably want to just remove the M V two.
So I'll just go back,
remove the nb tool on you can off course,
find all of these references on the bootstrap websites in the documentation on you can
customize your footer hall.
You would like it to be no notice that my foot or kind of stretches right across the page
instead of being confined to the container,
right?
So the container would be along this margin that I'm moving my most,
whereas the foot Terry stretching right across.
And it is a common design pattern toe,
actually,
have I noticed that the footer as I scroll the footer Dusty's there,
right?
And it's a common design.
Patrons have the knave buyer stretch right across.
You never content itself is kind off within the margin.
So I'm actually going to just do that on about this.
Modify the header section on doubt,
eat this entire love boat off that Dave.
So I'm just going to put that entire now section out off the continent live and I'm going
to put it above that continue narrative.
So still of minor of everything still works as it should.
But then when I refresh you see that my nerve will stretch right across the page on then.
Further to that,
if I wanted the actual content off the knob inside the container,
then I can actually just go back on bond.
In this live,
I can see containers of collapse in of bark dash collapse on.
Then I can just see container on down once I do that.
Sorry.
It just personal wrong buttons there.
So I say container and refresh,
and we get something that s so the links themselves are moved in on the logo.
Estilo.
So I mean,
you can me that decision.
He wants us to look like that.
That's entirely up to you.
Um,
but I kind of look like the look off having it kind of spread across the top right across
the people.
So the header is rent across on the footage right across on.
I cannot like that Look.
So that's the first touch that we're making toe over application.
Next,
we want to just upload it to Hiroko.
So we're going to go ahead and check in our changes in to get hubs and then synchronize
with herro.
Cool.
On and off course,
we made a change where we updated the profile picture.
So we need to update our database also.
So I'm I've opened up my workbench on guy connected to my remote database,
and I already have the data base here with a little bit of data.
I don't want toe remove this entire database or remove all the tables and have to rebuild
them.
So what I'm going to do is just manually go into my attendee table on at the columns.
I can distract like attendee on.
Then I can go toe altar table on.
Then that would allow me toe Add any column that I wish.
So I'm just going to go back to Loca.
I am served my be FEMA admin on.
Find the field on,
recreated accordingly.
All right,
so one that loads.
I went to that in the We'll have 10 dance on the score.
Db database attendee table phoned avatar path and see that his large are 200 it alos no.
So I'm just going to copy the data type.
So I mean,
you don't have to copy MPs.
I'm just doing the second speed up this process,
but I'm going to call it of attire.
Well,
was it of a tire on the score path?
So I already built the court to look for that field in my death.
So obviously,
whatever I'm whatever change are making to the production needs the mimic what it's looking
for in depth.
So it's a bar chart 200 on once.
I mean those changes I can apply,
but be it's my remote database on.
Then once the database is ready,
then I can do my uploads.
So I'm going to go to Vicky Top,
and I'm just going to check in these changes and I'll just say updated Hitter and footer
Andi.
I would have already updated the fact that I did the profile pictures to get up,
so I wouldn't Well,
that's why I only have these 21 James Fatso,
depending on what you may have done in your get up,
then you may want to add more to your comments,
but that's what I have done.
So I'll just commit to Master Onda push and then once that's done,
we know we can go to Herro cool on log into our application on.
Then we just go to deploy on.
We go ahead on deploy brunch.
Master,
once that's done,
we can off course just view our application.
So our application is here,
and I'm just going to try and fill.
Oh,
this poor are selling Philo the forum Just going to choose a profile picture on.
Then I'm going to click,
submit on this,
receive everything,
works and there we go on test hero Cool on There's our fox know if I log in just the view
all off the application are the applicants who will be attending the conference and see the
information that they uploaded.
And I see here that add mean logging is not working.
So I went over to the database and I see that I literally have the user admin and the word
password to remember that we went through some amount off rigor trying to harden the way
the password appears on D.
What should really happen is that we should have the admin user Yes,
on the password in ah,
hushed form.
So that is not happening here.
so I don't want to do is just remove this admin user on whether I can just remove all these
users.
I don't need them at this point.
And then I'm just going to refresh this speech on then do remember that once we load the
page that the Cory should run or the Oh,
sorry.
I heard that sort of corn should run,
but what I didn't do was apply when I deleted.
So let me try that again.
So with workbench,
when you modified the data set like I just did,
where deleted them.
I need to click apply,
which will actually generate that quarry.
So I'm just going to click,
apply again.
And then the choir would ever been run successfully.
No.
When I refreshed the page and it loads that con filed,
then it will go through.
And it went through because it resubmitted admin and password toe the form,
which also appeared in my database.
When I read when I rerun that quarter to select star from users than I see my admin user
here with the hushed password.
All right,
so if you run into that difficulty,
which I'm sure you won't,
But I'm just showing you what can go around.
So at this point,
these air the attendees in our database and here is the most recent one,
which is test.
Hiroko is an administrator.
And then,
if I view,
then I see that profile picture.
If I go back to the list on Dive you another one who was pre profile picture than I see
that it's only loading that default picture like we would have designed it to do on our
local deaf environment.
So that is how we go about building are kind off into end application with PHP and using or
PDO libraries to help us perform crowd operations on,
then get up for source control,
Onda change tracking and finally,
Hiroko for Web hosting and we're teaser,
Mort,
SQL Server and Sin Greed for using email services.
So at the end off the day,
that is how you go about building at PHP application from scratch up until inception on,
then styling with bootstrap for on hosting it on the Internet